---
title: "Know Your Medium"
author: "Jade Meskill"
date: 2015-02-02T00:00:00Z
lastmod: 2019-04-26T11:54:30-07:00
draft: false

---

Gerald J Sussman, from the Forward to [The Little LISPer](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/548914.The_Little_Schemer?from_search=true):  

   

In 1967 I took an introductory course in photography. Most of the students (including me) came into that course hoping to learn how to be creative–to take pictures like the ones I admired by artists such as Edward Weston. On the first day the teacher patiently explained the long list of technical skills that he was going to teach us during the term. A key was Ansel Adams&#39; &#34;Zone System&#34; for previsualizing the print values (blackness in the final print) in a photograph and how they derive from the light intensities in the scene. In support of this skill we had to learn the use of exposure meters to measure light intensities and the use of exposure time and development time to control the black level and the contrast in the image. This is in turn supported by even lower level skills such as loading film, developing and printing, and mixing chemicals. One must learn to ritualize the process of developing sensitive material so that one gets consistent results over many years of work. The first laboratory session was devoted to finding out that developer feels slippery and that fixer smells awful.  

   

But what of creative composition? In order to be creative one must first gain control of the medium. One can not even begin to think about organizing a great photograph without having the skills to make it happen. In engineering, as in other creative arts, we must learn to do analysis to support our efforts in synthesis. One cannot build a beautiful and functional bridge without a knowledge of steel and dirt and considerable mathematical technique for using this knowledge to compute the properties of structures. Similarly, one cannot build a beautiful computer system without a deep understanding of how to &#34;previsualize&#34; the process generated by the procedures one writes.  

   

Some photographers choose to use black-and-white 8x10 plates while others choose 35mm slides. Each has its advantages and disadvantages. Like photography, programming requires a choice of medium.
